Taras Shevchenko biography
He was born on March 9, 1814 in the village of Moryntsi, Zvenigorod district, Kyiv province, in a well-established peasant family. He became an orphan early - his mother died when he was 9 years old, and his father - at 11 years old. His sister Kateryna took care of him.
In the fall of 1822, he began to learn literacy from a local count. He is going to pay customs duties to Count Bogorskyi, who has arrived from Kyiv. Unable to endure the taunts of the count, he runs away from him and looks for a teacher-painter in the surrounding villages.
In 1828, he became one of the servants of the landowner Engelhardt, first as a cook, then as a Cossack. Noticing Taras's passion for painting, the landlord decides to make him a court painter. He gives his serf to the teacher of the University of Vilnius - the portrait painter Jan Rustem. Young Taras stayed in Vilna for 1.5 years.
Having moved from Vilna to St. Petersburg in 1831, Engelhardt took Shevchenko with him and sent him to study for 4 years with the painter Vasyl Shiryaev.
In the summer of 1836, he met his compatriot, the artist I. Soshenko, and through him, Yevhen Hrebinka, V. Hryhorovych, and O. Venetsianov.
In the spring of 1838, Karl Bryullov and Vasyl Zhukovsky bought the young poet from serfdom.
Soon he became a student of the Academy of Arts.
He published the first collection of his poetic works in 1840 under the title "Kobzar". There were 8 works in the first edition.
On May 25, 1843, he left St. Petersburg for Ukraine.
In February 1844, he left Ukraine for St. Petersburg via Moscow.
In 1844 wrote the acutely political poem "Dream" ("Everybody has his own fate"), embarking on the path of uncompromising struggle against the autocratic system of the then Russian Empire.
On April 5, the Council of the Academy of Arts issued a ticket for the right of passage to Ukraine. Already in November 1845, the meeting of the Academy of Arts in St. Petersburg approved the council's decision to grant the title of non-class artist.
On March 31 (April 12) 1845, he left St. Petersburg via Moscow to Kyiv.
In the spring of 1846, he arrived in Kyiv. In April, he joined the Cyril and Methodius brotherhood.
Arrested on April 5, 1847.